# Lifespan single-cell transcriptomic atlas of the human prefrontal cortex  

Overview
This repository contains code and analysis workflows for the DLPFC Lifespan Atlas, a comprehensive single-nucleus transcriptomic resource spanning the entire human lifespan. This work profiled 1.3 million nuclei from 284 postmortem samples (age 0-97 years) from the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex—a brain region central to cognitive function and vulnerable to age-related decline.

Data availability
The DLPFC lifespan snRNA-seq profiling data can be accessed via Synapse under accession code syn52396927, as part of the PsychAD Study detailed at syn60084804. The dataset, analysis outputs are available via the AD Knowledge Portal (https://adknowledgeportal.org). The AD Knowledge Portal is a platform for accessing data, analyses, and tools generated by the Accelerating Medicines Partnership (AMP-AD) Target Discovery Program and other National Institute on Aging (NIA)-supported programs to enable open-science practices and accelerate translational learning. The data, analyses and tools are shared early in the research cycle without a publication embargo on secondary use. Data is available for general research use according to the following requirements for data access and data attribution (https://adknowledgeportal.synapse.org/Data%20Access). For access to content described in this manuscript see: https://doi.org/10.7303/syn52396927. The data are available under controlled use conditions set by human privacy regulations. To access the data, a data use agreement is needed. The registration is in place solely to ensure the anonymity of the study participants. In addition, we have a data descriptor manuscript detailing the data processing and data collection. Interactive visualizations of the single-cell data can be explored through CELLxGENE: https://cellxgene.cziscience.com/e/4442d412-91cb-4261-acca-8adf5fa04c11.cxg/. 

# Citation
Yang et. al., A lifespan transcriptomic atlas of the human prefrontal cortex at single-cell resolution


